README.md, before:

# Spending Tracker

Personal Telegram Bot to track daily expenses.

## Feature

- Recording spending with simple prompt `{{amount}} {{description}}`, eg.
  `20000 lunch with friends`
- Daily report at EoD
- Monthly report at EoM and export report to Google Spreadsheet

## Stack

- Deno 2 (JS runtime)
- Typescript 5
- PostgreSQL (RDBMS, hosted on [Supabase](https://supabase.com/))
- Deno Deploy (deployment platform, https://deno.com/deploy)
- Telegram Bot API (user interface)

## How to Run

- Clone repository
- Run `deno install` to install dependencies
- Set required env vars as listed on `.env.example`
- Run `deno task serve` to run

## DB Migration

To create new migration file, run following.

It is troublesome to use CLI to create migrations. Because I can't make
convenient Deno task accepting user params at the moment. Note for improvement.

```bash
deno run -A https://deno.land/x/nessie/cli.ts make {your migration file name in snake-case and all lowercase}

example:
deno run -A https://deno.land/x/nessie/cli.ts make create_foo_table
```

To execute migration, execute

```bash
deno task migrate:up
```

Commit message:

feat: add migration to alter category table by adding is_active and description columns

README.md, after:

# Spending Tracker

Personal Telegram Bot to track daily expenses.

## Feature

- Recording spending with simple prompt `{{amount}} {{description}}`, eg.
  `20000 lunch with friends`
- Daily report at EoD
- Monthly report at EoM and export report to Google Spreadsheet

## Stack

- Deno 2 (JS runtime)
- Typescript 5
- PostgreSQL (RDBMS, hosted on [Supabase](https://supabase.com/))
- Deno Deploy (deployment platform, https://deno.com/deploy)
- Telegram Bot API (user interface)

## How to Run

- Clone repository
- Run `deno install` to install dependencies
- Set required env vars as listed on `.env.example`
- Run `deno task serve` to run

## DB Migration

To create new migration file, run following.

It is troublesome to use CLI to create migrations. Because I can't make
convenient Deno task accepting user params at the moment. Note for improvement.

Please follow following name format:

```
{DDL ACTION}_{TABLE NAME}_table_{DESCRIPTION OF CHANGES}
```

- DDL ACTION: `ALTER` or `CREATE`
- TABLE NAME: Name of the affected table
- DESCRIPTION OF CHANGES: Describing the changes being made concisely

```bash
deno run -A https://deno.land/x/nessie/cli.ts make {your migration file name in snake-case and all lowercase}

example:
deno run -A https://deno.land/x/nessie/cli.ts make create_foo_table
```

To execute migration, execute

```bash
deno task migrate:up
```
